Replace sqlgram links (#17468)
pingcap/docs: sql-statements/sql-statement-overview.md

# SQL Statement Overview

> TiDB uses SQL statements that try to follow the ISO/IEC SQL standards and are extended with MySQL and TiDB specific statements where required.

Reviewer: is this file expected to only contain one sentence? will this be expanded later?

Author: I added this to have one place to link to instead of the old sqlgram url. 

We could list all the statements on this page, but on the other hand, they are already in the TOC.

We could add more generic information about statements here, but I don't know what to add.

We could remove this, but then what place could we link to instead of the old sqlgram url?

@kennytm @qiancai Any ideas?

Reviewer 2: How about listing all the statements on this overview page according to the statement categories? Then users can view the statements in two dimensions, one in alphabetical order in the left navigation pane, and the other in the category order on this overview page. 

Here is an example (it is generated by AI according to the TiDB toc). Please feel free to adjust it if necessary. 

```
## Data definition statements (DDL)

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`ADD COLUMN`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-column.md) | Adds a column to an existing table. |
| [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) | Adds an index to an existing table. |
| [`ADD PLACEMENT POLICY`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-placement-policy.md) | Adds a placement policy to the database. |
| [`ADD PRIMARY KEY`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-primary-key.md) | Adds a primary key to an existing table. |
| [`ADD RESOURCE LABEL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-resource-label.md) | Adds a resource label to the system. |
| [`ADD RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-resource-group.md) | Adds a resource group to the system. |
| [`ADD STATS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-stats.md) | Adds statistics to a table. |
| [`ANALYZE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-analyze.md) | Collects statistics about a table. |
| [`CHANGE COLUMN`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-change-column.md) | Changes a column definition. |
| [`CREATE DATABASE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-database.md) | Creates a new database. |
| [`CREATE INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md) | Creates a new index on a table. |
| [`CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-placement-policy.md) | Creates a new placement policy. |
| [`CREATE RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-resource-group.md) | Creates a new resource group. |
| [`CREATE SEQUENCE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-sequence.md) | Creates a new sequence object. |
| [`CREATE TABLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-table.md) | Creates a new table. |
| [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-user.md) | Creates a new user. |
| [`CREATE VIEW`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-view.md) | Creates a new view. |
| [`DROP COLUMN`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-column.md) | Drops a column from a table. |
| [`DROP DATABASE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-database.md) | Drops an existing database. |
| [`DROP INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-index.md) | Drops an index from a table. |
| [`DROP PLACEMENT POLICY`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-placement-policy.md) | Drops an existing placement policy. |
| [`DROP RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-resource-group.md) | Drops a resource group. |
| [`DROP ROLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-role.md) | Drops an existing role. |
| [`DROP SEQUENCE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-sequence.md) | Drops a sequence object. |
| [`DROP STATS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-stats.md) | Drops statistics from a table. |
| [`DROP TABLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-table.md) | Drops an existing table. |
| [`DROP USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-user.md) | Drops an existing user. |
| [`DROP VIEW`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-view.md) | Drops an existing view. |
| [`MODIFY COLUMN`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-modify-column.md) | Modifies a column definition. |
| [`RENAME USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-rename-user.md) | Renames an existing user. |
| [`RENAME INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-rename-index.md) | Renames an index. |
| [`RENAME TABLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-rename-table.md) | Renames a table. |
| [`TRUNCATE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-truncate.md) | Truncates all data from a table. |

## Data manipulation statements (DML)

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`DELETE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-delete.md) | Deletes rows from a table. |
| [`INSERT`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-insert.md) | Inserts new rows into a table. |
| [`REPLACE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-replace.md) | Replaces existing rows or inserts new rows. |
| [`SELECT`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-select.md) | Retrieves rows from a table. |
| [`UPDATE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-update.md) | Updates existing rows in a table. |
| [`ANALYZE TABLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-analyze-table.md) | Analyzes and collects statistics for a table. |
| [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md) | Imports data into a table from an external source. |
| [`LOAD DATA`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-load-data.md) | Loads data into a table from a file. |

## Transaction statements

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`BEGIN`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-begin.md) | Begins a new transaction. |
| [`COMMIT`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-commit.md) | Commits the current transaction. |
| [`ROLLBACK`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-rollback.md) | Rolls back the current transaction. |
| [`SAVEPOINT`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-savepoint.md) | Sets a savepoint within a transaction. |
| [`START TRANSACTION`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-start-transaction.md) | Starts a new transaction. |
| [`SET TRANSACTION`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-transaction.md) | Sets the characteristics of the current transaction. |

## Administrative statements

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`ADMIN`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin.md) | Performs various administrative tasks. |
| [`ADMIN CANCEL DDL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-cancel-ddl.md) | Cancels a DDL job. |
| [`ADMIN CHECKSUM TABLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-checksum-table.md) | Computes and checks the checksum of a table. |
| [`ADMIN CHECK [TABLE\|INDEX]`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-check-table-index.md) | Checks the integrity of a table or index. |
| [`ADMIN CLEANUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-cleanup.md) | Cleans up residual files or resources. |
| [`ADMIN PAUSE DDL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-pause-ddl.md) | Pauses DDL operations. |
| [`ADMIN RECOVER INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-recover.md) | Recovers a damaged index. |
| [`ADMIN RESUME DDL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-resume-ddl.md) | Resumes DDL operations. |
| [`ADMIN [SET\|SHOW\|UNSET] BDR ROLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-bdr-role.md) | Manages BDR roles. |
| [`ADMIN SHOW DDL [JOBS\|JOB QUERIES]`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-show-ddl.md) | Shows DDL jobs or job queries. |
| [`ADMIN SHOW TELEMETRY`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-show-telemetry.md) | Shows telemetry data. |
| [`BACKUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-backup.md) | Creates a backup of the database. |
| [`CANCEL IMPORT JOB`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-cancel-import-job.md) | Cancels an ongoing import job. |
| [`CALIBRATE RESOURCE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-calibrate-resource.md) | Calibrates system resources. |
| [`FLASHBACK CLUSTER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-cluster.md) | Restores the cluster to a previous state. |
| [`FLASHBACK DATABASE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-database.md) | Restores the database to a previous state. |
| [`FLASHBACK TABLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-table.md) | Restores a table to a previous state. |
| [`RESTORE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-restore.md) | Restores a database from a backup. |
| [`SHUTDOWN`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-shutdown.md) | Shuts down the database server. |
| [`SPLIT REGION`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-split-region.md) | Splits a region into smaller regions. |

## Prepared statements

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`DEALLOCATE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-deallocate.md) | Deallocates a previously prepared statement. |
| [`EXECUTE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-execute.md) | Executes a previously prepared statement. |
| [`PREPARE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-prepare.md) | Prepares a statement for execution. |

## Utility statements

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`DESC`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-desc.md) | Describes the structure of a table. |
| [`DESCRIBE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-describe.md) | Describes the structure of a table. |
| [`DO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-do.md) | Executes an expression. |
| [`EXPLAIN`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain.md) | Shows the execution plan of a query. |
| [`HELP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-help.md) | Provides help information. |
| [`USE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-use.md) | Sets the current database. |

## Show statements

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`SHOW`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show.md) | Shows various information about the database. |
| [`SHOW CREATE DATABASE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-database.md) | Shows the CREATE statement for a database. |
| [`SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-placement-policy.md) | Shows the CREATE statement for a placement policy. |
| [`SHOW CREATE RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-resource-group.md) | Shows the CREATE statement for a resource group. |
| [`SHOW CREATE SEQUENCE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-sequence.md) | Shows the CREATE statement for a sequence. |
| [`SHOW CREATE TABLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-table.md) | Shows the CREATE statement for a table. |
| [`SHOW CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-user.md) | Shows the CREATE statement for a user. |
| [`SHOW DATABASES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-databases.md) | Shows all databases. |
| [`SHOW DRAINER STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-drainer-status.md) | Shows the status of the drainer. |
| [`SHOW ENGINES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-engines.md) | Shows available storage engines. |
| [`SHOW ERRORS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-errors.md) | Shows error messages. |
| [`SHOW FIELDS FROM`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-fields-from.md) | Shows columns of a table. |
| [`SHOW GRANTS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-grants.md) | Shows grants for a user. |
| [`SHOW IMPORT JOB`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-import-job.md) | Shows the status of an import job. |
| [`SHOW INDEXES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-indexes.md) | Shows indexes of a table. |
| [`SHOW MASTER STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-master-status.md) | Shows the status of the master server. |
| [`SHOW PLACEMENT`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-placement.md) | Shows placement rules. |
| [`SHOW PLACEMENT FOR`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-placement-for.md) | Shows placement rules for a specific table. |
| [`SHOW PLACEMENT LABELS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-placement-labels.md) | Shows available placement labels. |
| [`SHOW PLUGINS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-plugins.md) | Shows installed plugins. |
| [`SHOW PRIVILEGES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-privileges.md) | Shows available privileges. |
| [`SHOW PROCESSLIST`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-processlist.md) | Shows active threads. |
| [`SHOW PROFILES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-profiles.md) | Shows query profiles. |
| [`SHOW PUMP STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-pump-status.md) | Shows the status of the pump. |
| [`SHOW SCHEMAS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-schemas.md) | Shows all schemas. |
| [`SHOW STATS_HEALTHY`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-stats-healthy.md) | Shows the health of statistics. |
| [`SHOW STATS_HISTOGRAMS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-stats-histograms.md) | Shows statistics histograms. |
| [`SHOW STATS_LOCKED`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-stats-locked.md) | Shows locked statistics. |
| [`SHOW STATS_META`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-stats-meta.md) | Shows metadata statistics. |
| [`SHOW STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-status.md) | Shows server status. |
| [`SHOW TABLE NEXT_ROW_ID`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-table-next-rowid.md) | Shows the next row ID for a table. |
| [`SHOW TABLE REGIONS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-table-regions.md) | Shows regions of a table. |
| [`SHOW TABLE STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-table-status.md) | Shows the status of tables. |
| [`SHOW TABLES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-tables.md) | Shows tables in a database. |
| [`SHOW VARIABLES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-variables.md) | Shows system variables. |
| [`SHOW WARNINGS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-warnings.md) | Shows warning messages. |

## Locking statements

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`LOCK TABLES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-lock-tables-and-unlock-tables.md) | Locks tables for the current session. |
| [`UNLOCK TABLES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-lock-tables-and-unlock-tables.md) | Unlocks tables. |
| [`LOCK STATS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-lock-stats.md) | Locks statistics for a table. |
| [`UNLOCK STATS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-unlock-stats.md) | Unlocks statistics for a table. |
```

Author: I think this is a great idea and would be very useful.

We should make sure to list things that aren't statements, but are part of statements correctly. See also https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/17315

Reviewer 2: yes, the items such as `ADD COLUMN` and `RENAME INDEX` are more like subcommands in the `ALTER TABLE` statement. Perhaps, we can list them as `ALTER TABLE.. ADD COLUMN` and `ALTER TABLE .. RENAME INDEX` on this **SQL Statement Overview** page?

Author: I've made these changes in 9b34de6c0c49f3120d336519d54d3ff97fa03760

- Lists SQL statements in groups
- List operations that are part of `ALTER TABLE` as `ALTER TABLE ... <operation>`

The AI generated list had a few nonexistent ones and was missing a few others.

While many people are aware of DML and DDL, I don't think DCL and DQL are very common. So I used different grouping.

I tried to move some of the `SHOW` statements to different groups to keep things together based on what it is managing instead of grouping all `SHOW` statements together.

Author: Note that we list:
- `DESC` and `DESCRIBE` (And `EXPLAIN`)
- `SHOW DATABASES` and `SHOW SCHEMAS`

But we don't list:
- `SHOW MASTER STATUS` and `SHOW BINARY LOG STATUS`

```
mysql> desc t1;
+-------+---------+------+------+---------+-------+
| Field | Type    | Null | Key  | Default | Extra |
+-------+---------+------+------+---------+-------+
| id    | int(11) | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
+-------+---------+------+------+---------+-------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> describe t1;
+-------+---------+------+------+---------+-------+
| Field | Type    | Null | Key  | Default | Extra |
+-------+---------+------+------+---------+-------+
| id    | int(11) | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
+-------+---------+------+------+---------+-------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> explain t1;
+-------+---------+------+------+---------+-------+
| Field | Type    | Null | Key  | Default | Extra |
+-------+---------+------+------+---------+-------+
| id    | int(11) | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
+-------+---------+------+------+---------+-------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SHOW DATABASES; 
+--------------------+
| Database           |
+--------------------+
| INFORMATION_SCHEMA |
| METRICS_SCHEMA     |
| PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA |
| mysql              |
| sys                |
| test               |
+--------------------+
6 rows in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SHOW SCHEMAS;
+--------------------+
| Database           |
+--------------------+
| INFORMATION_SCHEMA |
| METRICS_SCHEMA     |
| PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA |
| mysql              |
| sys                |
| test               |
+--------------------+
6 rows in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SHOW MASTER STATUS;
+-------------+--------------------+--------------+------------------+-------------------+
| File        | Position           | Binlog_Do_DB | Binlog_Ignore_DB | Executed_Gtid_Set |
+-------------+--------------------+--------------+------------------+-------------------+
| tidb-binlog | 449933803186814976 |              |                  |                   |
+-------------+--------------------+--------------+------------------+-------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> SHOW BINARY LOG STATUS;
+-------------+--------------------+--------------+------------------+-------------------+
| File        | Position           | Binlog_Do_DB | Binlog_Ignore_DB | Executed_Gtid_Set |
+-------------+--------------------+--------------+------------------+-------------------+
| tidb-binlog | 449933804587450368 |              |                  |                   |
+-------------+--------------------+--------------+------------------+-------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

Not sure what the best way is to list aliases. 

Maybe list both:

| Statement | Description |
|----|---|
| `DESC` | Describe (Alias for `DESCRIBE`) | 
| `DESCRIBE` | Describe | 

Or list them together:

| Statement | Description |
|----|---|
| `DESC` / `DESCRIBE`| Describe| 

Or add a column:

| Statement | Aliases | Description |
|----|---|---|
| `DESCRIBE` | `DESC` | Describe| 

Or don't list them at all and only list them on the statement pages themselves?

Reviewer 2: If we list both, it will be easier for users to find any of them from a table.

| [`ALTER TABLE ... ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) | Adds an index to an existing table. |
| [`ALTER TABLE ... ALTER INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-index.md) | Changes an index definition. |
| [`ALTER TABLE ... CHANGE COLUMN`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-change-column.md) | Changes a column definition. |
| [`ALTER TABLE ... COMPACT`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-table-compact.md) | Compacts a table. |
| [`ALTER TABLE ... DROP COLUMN`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-column.md) | Drops a column from a table. |
| [`ALTER TABLE ... MODIFY COLUMN`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-modify-column.md) | Modifies a column definition. |
| [`ALTER TABLE ... RENAME INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-rename-index.md) | Renames an index. |
| [`ALTER TABLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-table.md) | Changes a table definition. |
| [`CREATE DATABASE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-database.md) | Creates a new database. |
| [`CREATE INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md) | Creates a new index on a table. |
| [`CREATE SEQUENCE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-sequence.md) | Creates a new sequence object. |

> | [`CREATE TABLE LIKE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-table-like.md) | Creates a table that is like another table. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`CREATE TABLE LIKE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-table-like.md) | Copies the definition of an existing table, without copying any data. |
```

| [`SET TRANSACTION`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-transaction.md) | Sets the characteristics of the current transaction. |
| [`START TRANSACTION`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-start-transaction.md) | Starts a new transaction. |

## Prepared statements

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`DEALLOCATE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-deallocate.md) | Deallocates a previously prepared statement. |
| [`EXECUTE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-execute.md) | Executes a previously prepared statement. |
| [`PREPARE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-prepare.md) | Prepares a statement for execution. |

## Administrative statements

<CustomContent platform="tidb">

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`ADMIN CANCEL DDL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-cancel-ddl.md) | Cancels a DDL job. |
| [`ADMIN CHECK [TABLE\|INDEX]`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-check-table-index.md) | Checks the integrity of a table or index. |
| [`ADMIN CHECKSUM TABLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-checksum-table.md) | Computes and checks the checksum of a table. |

> | [`ADMIN CLEANUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-cleanup.md) | Cleans up residual files or resources. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`ADMIN CLEANUP INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-cleanup.md) | Cleans up indexes from a table. |
```

| [`ADMIN PAUSE DDL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-pause-ddl.md) | Pauses DDL operations. |
| [`ADMIN RESUME DDL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-resume-ddl.md) | Resumes DDL operations. |
| [`ADMIN SHOW DDL [JOBS\|JOB QUERIES]`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-show-ddl.md) | Shows DDL jobs or job queries. |
| [`ADMIN SHOW TELEMETRY`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-show-telemetry.md) | Shows telemetry data. |
| [`ADMIN`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin.md) | Performs various administrative tasks. |

> | [`FLUSH TABLES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flush-tables.md) | Flushes a table. |
> | [`SET <variable>`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-variable.md) | Sets a variable. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`FLUSH TABLES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flush-tables.md) |  Included for MySQL compatibility. It has no effective usage in TiDB. |
| [`SET <variable>`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-variable.md) | Modifies one of TiDB's built-in variables |
```

Author: `SET` is not only for system variables, it is also for user variables.

```
mysql> SET @a := 5;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)

mysql> SELECT @a * 3;
+--------+
| @a * 3 |
+--------+
|     15 |
+--------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

Reviewer 2: Thanks for the verification. I've updated the comment.

| [`SET NAMES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-names.md) | Set a character set and collation. |

> | [`SPLIT REGION`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-split-region.md) | Splits a region into smaller regions. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`SPLIT REGION`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-split-region.md) | Splits a Region into smaller Regions. |
```

</CustomContent>

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`ADMIN CANCEL DDL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-cancel-ddl.md) | Cancels a DDL job. |
| [`ADMIN CHECK [TABLE\|INDEX]`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-check-table-index.md) | Checks the integrity of a table or index. |
| [`ADMIN CHECKSUM TABLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-checksum-table.md) | Computes and checks the checksum of a table. |

> | [`ADMIN CLEANUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-cleanup.md) | Cleans up residual files or resources. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`ADMIN CLEANUP INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-cleanup.md) | Cleans up indexes from a table. |
```

| [`ADMIN PAUSE DDL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-pause-ddl.md) | Pauses DDL operations. |
| [`ADMIN RESUME DDL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-resume-ddl.md) | Resumes DDL operations. |
| [`ADMIN SHOW DDL [JOBS\|JOB QUERIES]`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-show-ddl.md) | Shows DDL jobs or job queries. |
| [`ADMIN`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin.md) | Performs various administrative tasks. |
| [`FLUSH TABLES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flush-tables.md) | Flushes a table. |
| [`SET <variable>`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-variable.md) | Sets a variable. |

> | [`SET NAMES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-names.md) | Set a character set and collation. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`SET [NAMES\|CHARACTER SET]`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-names.md) | Set a character set and collation. |
```

> | [`SPLIT REGION`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-split-region.md) | Splits a region into smaller regions. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`SPLIT REGION`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-split-region.md) | Splits a Region into smaller Regions. |
```

</CustomContent>

## Data import and export

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`CANCEL IMPORT JOB`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-cancel-import-job.md) | Cancels an ongoing import job. |

> | [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md) | Imports data into a table from an external source. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md) | Imports data into a table via the [Physical Import Mode](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode) of TiDB Lightning. |
```

> | [`LOAD DATA`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-load-data.md) | Loads data into a table from a file. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`LOAD DATA`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-load-data.md) | Loads data into a table from Amazon S3 and GCS. |
```

Author: I think we should name this "Google Cloud Storage".

Reviewer 2: Done.

| [`SHOW IMPORT JOB`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-import-job.md) | Shows the status of an import job. |

## Backup & restore

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|

> | [`ADMIN RECOVER INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-recover.md) | Recovers a damaged index. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`ADMIN RECOVER INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-recover.md) | Recovers the consistency based on the redundant indexes. |
```

> | [`BACKUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-backup.md) | Creates a backup of the database. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`BACKUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-backup.md) | Perform a distributed backup of the TiDB cluster. |
```

> | [`FLASHBACK CLUSTER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-cluster.md) | Restores the cluster to a previous state. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`FLASHBACK CLUSTER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-cluster.md) | Restores the cluster to a specific point in time. |
```

Author: I think naming it point in time might confuse people. Maybe "...to a specific snapshot"?

Author: ```suggestion
| [`FLASHBACK CLUSTER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-cluster.md) | Restores the cluster to a specific snapshot. |
```

> | [`FLASHBACK DATABASE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-database.md) | Restores the database to a previous state. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`FLASHBACK DATABASE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-database.md) | Restores a database and its data that are deleted by the `DROP` statement. |
```

> | [`FLASHBACK TABLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-table.md) | Restores a table to a previous state. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`FLASHBACK TABLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-table.md) | Restore the tables and data dropped by the `DROP` or `TRUNCATE` operation. |
```

> | [`RECOVER TABLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-recover-table.md) | Recovers a table. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`RECOVER TABLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-recover-table.md) | Recovers a deleted table and the data on it. |
```

| [`RESTORE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-restore.md) | Restores a database from a backup. |

> | [`SHOW BACKUPS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-backups.md) | Shows backups. |

Author: From https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/sql-statement-show-backups:
"...a list of all queued, running and recently finished..."

So this doesn't show all finished backups. It mostly show running backups.

> | [`SHOW BACKUPS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-backups.md) | Shows backups. |

Reviewer 2: I've updated the comment by removing "finished".

## Placement policy

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`ALTER PLACEMENT POLICY`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-placement-policy.md) | Modifies a placement policy. |
| [`ALTER RANGE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-range.md) | Modifies the range of a placement policy. |
| [`CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-placement-policy.md) | Creates a new placement policy. |
| [`DROP PLACEMENT POLICY`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-placement-policy.md) | Drops an existing placement policy. |

> | [`SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-placement-policy.md) | Shows the CREATE statement for a placement policy. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-placement-policy.md) | Shows the `CREATE` statement for a placement policy. |
```

| [`SHOW PLACEMENT FOR`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-placement-for.md) | Shows placement rules for a specific table. |
| [`SHOW PLACEMENT LABELS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-placement-labels.md) | Shows available placement labels. |
| [`SHOW PLACEMENT`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-placement.md) | Shows placement rules. |

## Resource groups

<CustomContent platform="tidb">

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`ALTER RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-resource-group.md) | Modifies a resource group. |

> | [`CALIBRATE RESOURCE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-calibrate-resource.md) | Calibrates system resources. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`CALIBRATE RESOURCE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-calibrate-resource.md) | Estimates and outputs the ['Request Unit (RU)`](/tidb-resource-control#what-is-request-unit-ru) capacity of the current cluster. |
```

| [`CREATE RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-resource-group.md) | Creates a new resource group. |
| [`DROP RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-resource-group.md) | Drops a resource group. |
| [`QUERY WATCH`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-query-watch.md) | Manage runaway query watch list. |
| [`SET RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-resource-group.md) | Sets a resource group. |

> | [`SHOW CREATE RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-resource-group.md) | Shows the CREATE statement for a resource group. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`SHOW CREATE RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-resource-group.md) | Shows the `CREATE` statement for a resource group. |
```

</CustomContent>

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`ALTER RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-resource-group.md) | Modifies a resource group. |
| [`CREATE RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-resource-group.md) | Creates a new resource group. |
| [`DROP RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-resource-group.md) | Drops a resource group. |
| [`QUERY WATCH`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-query-watch.md) | Manage runaway query watch list. |
| [`SET RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-resource-group.md) | Sets a resource group. |

> | [`SHOW CREATE RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-resource-group.md) | Shows the CREATE statement for a resource group. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`SHOW CREATE RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-resource-group.md) | Shows the `CREATE` statement for a resource group. |
```

</CustomContent>

## Utility statements

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|

> | [`DESC`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-desc.md) | Describes the structure of a table. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`DESC`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-desc.md) | An alias to `EXPLAIN`, which shows the execution plan of a query without executing it. |
```

Author: Both `DESC`/`DESCRIBE` and `EXPLAIN` do two different things:

Describe the structure of a table:
```
mysql> DESCRIBE t1;
+-------+---------+------+------+---------+-------+
| Field | Type    | Null | Key  | Default | Extra |
+-------+---------+------+------+---------+-------+
| id    | int(11) | NO   | PRI  | NULL    |       |
+-------+---------+------+------+---------+-------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

Show the explain plan of a query:
```
mysql> EXPLAIN SELECT 1;
+-------------------+---------+------+---------------+---------------+
| id                | estRows | task | access object | operator info |
+-------------------+---------+------+---------------+---------------+
| Projection_3      | 1.00    | root |               | 1->Column#1   |
| └─TableDual_4     | 1.00    | root |               | rows:1        |
+-------------------+---------+------+---------------+---------------+
2 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

While these are aliases and can be all be used for both of these operations, it is more common to use `DESC`/`DESCRIBE` to list the structure of a table and to use `EXPLAIN` with execution plans.

Note that `SHOW COLUMNS FROM` can also be used to inspect the table structure, but not to get execution plans.

Reviewer 2: Thanks for pointing that out. I copied the descriptions from [DESC | TiDB SQL Statement Reference](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/sql-statement-desc) and [DESCRIBE | TiDB SQL Statement Reference](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/sql-statement-describe)😂. Perhaps, another PR is needed to fix the descriptions in these docs.

Author: Let's list `DESC` as alias for `DESCRIBE` and document this as a statement to get a table description.

Then `EXPLAIN` can be documented as statement for getting an explain plan.

> | [`DESCRIBE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-describe.md) | Describes the structure of a table. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`DESCRIBE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-describe.md) | An alias to `EXPLAIN`, which shows the execution plan of a query without executing it. |
```

| [`DO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-do.md) | Executes an expression. |

> | [`EXPLAIN`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain.md) | Shows the execution plan of a query. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`EXPLAIN`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain.md) | Shows the execution plan of a query without executing it. |
```

Author: I would suggest to not apply this as `EXPLAIN ANALYZE...` might be seen as a sub statement of `EXPLAIN...`.

> | [`DO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-do.md) | Executes an expression. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`DO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-do.md) | Executes an expression but does not return any results. |
```

> | [`TRACE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-trace.md) | Traces query execution. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`TRACE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-trace.md) | Provides detailed information about query execution. |
```

| [`USE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-use.md) | Sets the current database. |

## Show statements

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`SHOW BUILTINS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-builtins.md) | Lists builtin functions. |
| [`SHOW CHARACTER SET`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-character-set.md) | Lists character sets. |
| [`SHOW COLLATIONS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-collation.md) | Lists collations. |

> | [`SHOW ERRORS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-errors.md) | Shows error messages. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`SHOW ERRORS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-errors.md) | Shows errors from previously executed statements. |
```

> | [`SHOW STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-status.md) | Shows server status. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`SHOW STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-status.md) | Included for compatibility with MySQL. TiDB uses Prometheus and Grafana for centralized metrics collection instead of `SHOW STATUS` for most metrics. |
```

Author: Maybe link to `grafana-tidb-dashboard.md` ?

| [`SHOW VARIABLES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-variables.md) | Shows system variables. |

> | [`SHOW WARNINGS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-warnings.md) | Shows warning messages. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`SHOW WARNINGS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-warnings.md) | Shows warnings from previously executed statements. |
```

Author: ```
mysql> SELECT 1/0;
+------+
| 1/0  |
+------+
| NULL |
+------+
1 row in set, 1 warning (0.00 sec)

mysql> SHOW WARNINGS;
+---------+------+---------------+
| Level   | Code | Message       |
+---------+------+---------------+
| Warning | 1365 | Division by 0 |
+---------+------+---------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> ANALYZE TABLE t1;
Query OK, 0 rows affected, 1 warning (0.05 sec)

mysql> SHOW WARNINGS;
+-------+------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Level | Code | Message                                                                                                                                                |
+-------+------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Note  | 1105 | Analyze use auto adjusted sample rate 1.000000 for table test.t1, reason to use this rate is "TiDB assumes that the table is empty, use sample-rate=1" |
+-------+------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

I would suggest something like "Shows warnings and notes..."

It is a bit confusing that notes increase the warning count instead of a note count (which doesn't exist). And there is no `SHOW NOTES` or anything similar.

## Instance management

<CustomContent platform="tidb">

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`ALTER INSTANCE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-instance.md) | Modifies an instance. |

> | [`FLUSH STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flush-status.md) | Resets status variables. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`FLUSH STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flush-status.md) | Included for compatibility with MySQL. TiDB uses Prometheus and Grafana for centralized metrics collection instead of `SHOW STATUS` for most metrics. |
```

Author: Maybe we should link to `mysql-compatibility.md` and `grafana-tidb-dashboard.md`?

> | [`KILL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-kill.md) | Kills a process. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`KILL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-kill.md) | Kills a connection in any TiDB instance in the current TiDB cluster. |
```

> | [`SHOW CONFIG`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-config.md) | Shows the configuration. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`SHOW CONFIG`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-config.md) | Shows the configuration of various components of TiDB. |
```

| [`SHOW ENGINES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-engines.md) | Shows available storage engines. |
| [`SHOW PLUGINS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-plugins.md) | Shows installed plugins. |

> | [`SHOW PROCESSLIST`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-processlist.md) | Shows active threads. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`SHOW PROCESSLIST`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-processlist.md) | Shows the current sessions connected to the same TiDB server. |
```

> | [`SHOW PROFILES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-profiles.md) | Shows query profiles. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`SHOW PROFILES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-profiles.md) | Currently only returns an empty result. |
```

Author: I think we should add `Included for compatibility with MySQL.` to this.

> | [`SHUTDOWN`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-shutdown.md) | Shuts down the database server. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`SHUTDOWN`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-shutdown.md) | Stops the client-connected TiDB instance, not the entire TiDB cluster. |
```

</CustomContent>

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`ALTER INSTANCE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-instance.md) | Modifies an instance. |

> | [`FLUSH STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flush-status.md) | Resets status variables. |
> | [`KILL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-kill.md) | Kills a process. |
> | [`SHOW ENGINES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-engines.md) | Shows available storage engines. |
> | [`SHOW MASTER STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-master-status.md) | Shows the status of the master server. |
> | [`SHOW PLUGINS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-plugins.md) | Shows installed plugins. |
> | [`SHOW PROCESSLIST`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-processlist.md) | Shows active threads. |
> | [`SHOW PROFILES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-profiles.md) | Shows query profiles. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`FLUSH STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flush-status.md) | Included for compatibility with MySQL. TiDB uses Prometheus and Grafana for centralized metrics collection instead of `SHOW STATUS` for most metrics. |
| [`KILL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-kill.md) | Kills a connection in any TiDB instance in the current TiDB cluster. |
| [`SHOW ENGINES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-engines.md) | Shows available storage engines. |
| [`SHOW MASTER STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-master-status.md) | Shows the latest TSO in the cluster. |
| [`SHOW PLUGINS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-plugins.md) | Shows installed plugins. |
| [`SHOW PROCESSLIST`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-processlist.md) | Shows the current sessions connected to the same TiDB server. |
| [`SHOW PROFILES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-profiles.md) | Currently only returns an empty result. |
```

</CustomContent>

## Locking statements

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|

> | [`LOCK STATS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-lock-stats.md) | Locks statistics for a table. |
> | [`LOCK TABLES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-lock-tables-and-unlock-tables.md) | Locks tables for the current session. |
> | [`UNLOCK STATS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-unlock-stats.md) | Unlocks statistics for a table. |
> | [`UNLOCK TABLES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-lock-tables-and-unlock-tables.md) | Unlocks tables. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`LOCK STATS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-lock-stats.md) | Locks the statistics of tables or partitions. |
| [`LOCK TABLES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-lock-tables-and-unlock-tables.md) | Locks tables for the current session. |
| [`UNLOCK STATS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-unlock-stats.md) | Unlocks statistics of tables or partitions. |
| [`UNLOCK TABLES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-lock-tables-and-unlock-tables.md) | Unlocks tables. |
```

## Account management / Data Control Language

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`ALTER USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-user.md) | Modifies a user. |
| [`CREATE ROLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-role.md) | Creates a role. |
| [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-user.md) | Creates a new user. |
| [`DROP ROLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-role.md) | Drops an existing role. |
| [`DROP USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-user.md) | Drops an existing user. |

> | [`FLUSH PRIVILEGES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flush-privileges.md) | Activates privilege changes. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`FLUSH PRIVILEGES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flush-privileges.md) | Reloads the in-memory copy of privileges from the privilege tables |
```

| [`GRANT <privileges>`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-grant-privileges.md) | Grants privileges. |
| [`GRANT <role>`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-grant-role.md) | Grants a role. |
| [`RENAME USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-rename-user.md) | Renames an existing user. |
| [`REVOKE <privileges>`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-revoke-privileges.md) | Revokes privileges. |
| [`REVOKE <role>`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-revoke-role.md) | Revokes a role. |
| [`SET DEFAULT ROLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-default-role.md) | Sets a default role. |
| [`SET PASSWORD`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-password.md) | Changes a password. |

> | [`SET ROLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-role.md) | Sets a role. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`SET ROLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-role.md) | Enables roles in the current session. |
```

> | [`SHOW CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-user.md) | Shows the CREATE statement for a user. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`SHOW CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-user.md) | Shows the `CREATE USER` statement for a user. |
```

> | [`SHOW GRANTS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-grants.md) | Shows grants for a user. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`SHOW GRANTS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-grants.md) | Shows privileges associated with a user. |
```

| [`SHOW PRIVILEGES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-privileges.md) | Shows available privileges. |

<CustomContent platform="tidb">

## TiDB Binlog & TiCDC

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`ADMIN [SET\|SHOW\|UNSET] BDR ROLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-bdr-role.md) | Manages BDR roles. |

> | [`CHANGE DRAINER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-change-drainer.md) | Changes drainer. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`CHANGE DRAINER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-change-drainer.md) | Modifies the status information for Drainer in the cluster. |
```

> | [`CHANGE PUMP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-change-pump.md) | Changes pump. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`CHANGE PUMP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-change-pump.md) | Modifies the status information for Pump in the cluster. |
```

> | [`SHOW DRAINER STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-drainer-status.md) | Shows the status of the drainer. |
> | [`SHOW MASTER STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-master-status.md) | Shows the status of the master server. |
> | [`SHOW PUMP STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-pump-status.md) | Shows the status of the pump. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`SHOW DRAINER STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-drainer-status.md) | Shows the status for all Drainer nodes in the cluster. |
| [`SHOW MASTER STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-master-status.md) | Shows the latest TSO in the cluster. |
| [`SHOW PUMP STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-pump-status.md) | Shows the status information for all Pump nodes in the cluster. |
```

</CustomContent>

## Statistics and plan management

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`ANALYZE TABLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-analyze-table.md) | Collects statistics about a table. |

> | [`CREATE BINDING`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-binding.md) | Creates a plan binding. |
> | [`DROP BINDING`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-binding.md) | Drops a plan binding. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`CREATE BINDING`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-binding.md) | Creates an execution plan binding for a SQL statement. |
| [`DROP BINDING`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-binding.md) | Drops an execution plan binding from a SQL statement. |
```

| [`DROP STATS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-stats.md) | Drops statistics from a table. |

> | [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain-analyze.md) | Analyze query execution. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain-analyze.md) | Works similar to `EXPLAIN`, with the major difference that it will execute the statement. |
```

> | [`LOAD STATS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-load-stats.md) | Load statistics. |
> | [`SHOW ANALYZE STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-analyze-status.md) | Show analyze status. |
> | [`SHOW BINDINGS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-bindings.md) | Show bindings. |
> | [`SHOW STATS_HEALTHY`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-stats-healthy.md) | Shows the health of statistics. |
> | [`SHOW STATS_HISTOGRAMS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-stats-histograms.md) | Shows statistics histograms. |
> | [`SHOW STATS_LOCKED`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-stats-locked.md) | Shows locked statistics. |
> | [`SHOW STATS_META`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-stats-meta.md) | Shows metadata statistics. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`LOAD STATS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-load-stats.md) | Load statistics into TiDB. |
| [`SHOW ANALYZE STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-analyze-status.md) | Show statistics collection tasks. |
| [`SHOW BINDINGS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-bindings.md) | Show created SQL bindings. |
| [`SHOW STATS_HEALTHY`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-stats-healthy.md) | Shows an estimation of how accurate statistics are believed to be. |
| [`SHOW STATS_HISTOGRAMS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-stats-histograms.md) | Shows the histogram information in statistics. |
| [`SHOW STATS_LOCKED`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-stats-locked.md) | Shows the tables whose statistics are locked. |
| [`SHOW STATS_META`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-stats-meta.md) | Shows how many rows are in a table and how many rows are changed in that table. |
```

| [`ALTER RANGE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-range.md) | Modifies the range of a placement policy. |
| [`CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-placement-policy.md) | Creates a new placement policy. |
| [`DROP PLACEMENT POLICY`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-placement-policy.md) | Drops an existing placement policy. |
| [`SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-placement-policy.md) | Shows the `CREATE` statement for a placement policy. |
| [`SHOW PLACEMENT FOR`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-placement-for.md) | Shows placement rules for a specific table. |
| [`SHOW PLACEMENT LABELS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-placement-labels.md) | Shows available placement labels. |
| [`SHOW PLACEMENT`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-placement.md) | Shows placement rules. |

## Resource groups

<CustomContent platform="tidb">

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`ALTER RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-resource-group.md) | Modifies a resource group. |

> | [`CALIBRATE RESOURCE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-calibrate-resource.md) | Estimates and outputs the [`Request Unit (RU)`](/tidb-resource-control#what-is-request-unit-ru) capacity of the current cluster. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`CALIBRATE RESOURCE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-calibrate-resource.md) | Estimates and outputs the [`Request Unit (RU)`](/tidb-resource-control.md#what-is-request-unit-ru) capacity of the current cluster. |
```

</CustomContent>

## Instance management

<CustomContent platform="tidb">

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`ALTER INSTANCE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-instance.md) | Modifies an instance. |
| [`FLUSH STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flush-status.md) | Included for [compatibility with MySQL](/mysql-compatibility.md). TiDB uses [Prometheus and Grafana](/tidb-monitoring-framework.md) for centralized metrics collection instead of `SHOW STATUS` for most metrics. |
| [`KILL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-kill.md) | Kills a connection in any TiDB instance in the current TiDB cluster. |
| [`SHOW CONFIG`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-config.md) | Shows the configuration of various components of TiDB. |
| [`SHOW ENGINES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-engines.md) | Shows available storage engines. |
| [`SHOW PLUGINS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-plugins.md) | Shows installed plugins. |
| [`SHOW PROCESSLIST`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-processlist.md) | Shows the current sessions connected to the same TiDB server. |

> | [`SHOW PROFILES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-profiles.md) | Shows query profiles. Included for [compatibility with MySQL](/mysql-compatibility.md). Currently only returns an empty result. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`SHOW PROFILES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-profiles.md) | Shows query profiles. Included for [compatibility with MySQL](/mysql-compatibility.md). Currently, it only returns an empty result. |
```

| [`GRANT <privileges>`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-grant-privileges.md) | Grants privileges. |
| [`GRANT <role>`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-grant-role.md) | Grants a role. |
| [`RENAME USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-rename-user.md) | Renames an existing user. |
| [`REVOKE <privileges>`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-revoke-privileges.md) | Revokes privileges. |
| [`REVOKE <role>`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-revoke-role.md) | Revokes a role. |
| [`SET DEFAULT ROLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-default-role.md) | Sets a default role. |
| [`SET PASSWORD`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-password.md) | Changes a password. |
| [`SET ROLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-role.md) | Enables roles in the current session. |
| [`SHOW CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-user.md) | Shows the `CREATE` statement for a user. |
| [`SHOW GRANTS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-grants.md) | Shows privileges associated with a user. |
| [`SHOW PRIVILEGES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-privileges.md) | Shows available privileges. |

> <CustomContent platform="tidb">

Reviewer 2: The `CustomContent` tag currently does support wrap section titles.  If we use it to wrap sections, the content looks fine in the docs website, but the section title "## TiDB Binlog & TiCDC" will still be displayed in the "What's on this page" pane for TiDB Cloud 😞.   Perhaps, we need to keep this section for both TiDB and TiDB Cloud and add a note after the section title stating the following statements are not applicable to TiDB Cloud.

Author: This section list multiple statements that are not in the Cloud TOC...

Maybe we should rename the section to "Replication statements" and then point to https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/changefeed-overview and say that TiDB Cloud uses a web interface and API instead of statements?

Author: Or we could simply leave it and only list `SHOW MASTER STATUS`? Maybe that's best.

Author: Done in 1597d9d37b8ae9af0bdc553c697942cb9a069f90

> # SQL Statement Overview
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
---
title: SQL Statement Overview
summary: Learn about SQL statement overview.
---
# SQL Statement Overview

```

| [`SET <variable>`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-variable.md) | Modifies a system variable or user variable. |
| [`SET [NAMES\|CHARACTER SET]`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-names.md) | Set a character set and collation. |
| [`SPLIT REGION`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-split-region.md) | Splits a Region into smaller Regions. |

</CustomContent>

## Data import and export

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`CANCEL IMPORT JOB`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-cancel-import-job.md) | Cancels an ongoing import job. |
| [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md) | Imports data into a table via the [Physical Import Mode](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode) of TiDB Lightning. |
| [`LOAD DATA`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-load-data.md) | Loads data into a table from Amazon S3 or Google Cloud Storage. |
| [`SHOW IMPORT JOB`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-import-job.md) | Shows the status of an import job. |

## Backup & restore

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|

> | [`BACKUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-backup.md) | Perform a distributed backup of the TiDB cluster. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [`BACKUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-backup.md) | Performs a distributed backup of the TiDB cluster. |
```

| [`FLASHBACK CLUSTER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-cluster.md) | Restores the cluster to a specific snapshot. |

> | [`FLASHBACK DATABASE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-database.md) | Restores a database and its data that are deleted by the `DROP` statement. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [`FLASHBACK DATABASE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-database.md) | Restores a database and its data deleted by the `DROP` statement. |
```

| [`SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-placement-policy.md) | Shows the `CREATE` statement for a placement policy. |
| [`SHOW PLACEMENT FOR`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-placement-for.md) | Shows placement rules for a specific table. |
| [`SHOW PLACEMENT LABELS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-placement-labels.md) | Shows available placement labels. |
| [`SHOW PLACEMENT`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-placement.md) | Shows placement rules. |

## Resource groups

<CustomContent platform="tidb">

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`ALTER RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-resource-group.md) | Modifies a resource group. |
| [`CALIBRATE RESOURCE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-calibrate-resource.md) | Estimates and outputs the [Request Unit (RU)](/tidb-resource-control.md#what-is-request-unit-ru) capacity of the current cluster. |
| [`CREATE RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-resource-group.md) | Creates a new resource group. |
| [`DROP RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-resource-group.md) | Drops a resource group. |

> | [`QUERY WATCH`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-query-watch.md) | Manage runaway query watch list. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [`QUERY WATCH`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-query-watch.md) | Manages the runaway query watch list. |
```

| [`SET RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-resource-group.md) | Sets a resource group. |
| [`SHOW CREATE RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-resource-group.md) | Shows the `CREATE` statement for a resource group. |

</CustomContent>

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`ALTER RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-resource-group.md) | Modifies a resource group. |
| [`CREATE RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-resource-group.md) | Creates a new resource group. |
| [`DROP RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-resource-group.md) | Drops a resource group. |

> | [`QUERY WATCH`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-query-watch.md) | Manage runaway query watch list. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [`QUERY WATCH`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-query-watch.md) | Manages the runaway query watch list. |
```

| [`GRANT <privileges>`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-grant-privileges.md) | Grants privileges. |
| [`GRANT <role>`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-grant-role.md) | Grants a role. |
| [`RENAME USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-rename-user.md) | Renames an existing user. |
| [`REVOKE <privileges>`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-revoke-privileges.md) | Revokes privileges. |
| [`REVOKE <role>`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-revoke-role.md) | Revokes a role. |
| [`SET DEFAULT ROLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-default-role.md) | Sets a default role. |
| [`SET PASSWORD`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-password.md) | Changes a password. |
| [`SET ROLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-role.md) | Enables roles in the current session. |
| [`SHOW CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-user.md) | Shows the `CREATE` statement for a user. |
| [`SHOW GRANTS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-grants.md) | Shows privileges associated with a user. |
| [`SHOW PRIVILEGES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-privileges.md) | Shows available privileges. |

> ## TiDB Binlog & TiCDC

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## TiCDC & TiDB Binlog
```

Reviewer 2: According to https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-binlog-overview, "Starting from TiDB v7.5.0, technical support for the data replication feature of TiDB Binlog is no longer provided. It is strongly recommended to use [TiCDC](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/ticdc-overview) as an alternative solution for data replication.", it is   better to highlight TiCDC first.

<CustomContent platform="tidb">

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`ADMIN [SET\|SHOW\|UNSET] BDR ROLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-bdr-role.md) | Manages BDR roles. |
| [`CHANGE DRAINER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-change-drainer.md) | Modifies the status information for Drainer in the cluster. |
| [`CHANGE PUMP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-change-pump.md) | Modifies the status information for Pump in the cluster. |
| [`SHOW DRAINER STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-drainer-status.md) | Shows the status for all Drainer nodes in the cluster. |
| [`SHOW MASTER STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-master-status.md) | Shows the latest TSO in the cluster. |
| [`SHOW PUMP STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-pump-status.md) | Shows the status information for all Pump nodes in the cluster. |

</CustomContent>

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:**
>
> [TiCDC](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/ticdc-overview) & [TiDB Binlog](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-binlog-overview )are tools for replicating TiDB data to the upstream for TiDB Self-Hosted. Most SQL statements for TiCDC and TiDB Binlog are not applicable to TiDB Cloud. For TiDB Cloud, you can use the [Changefeed](/tidb-cloud/changefeed-overview.md) feature in the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com) instead to stream data. 
```

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`SHOW MASTER STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-master-status.md) | Shows the latest TSO in the cluster. |

</CustomContent>

## Statistics and plan management

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`ANALYZE TABLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-analyze-table.md) | Collects statistics about a table. |
| [`CREATE BINDING`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-binding.md) | Creates an execution plan binding for a SQL statement. |
| [`DROP BINDING`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-binding.md) | Drops an execution plan binding from a SQL statement. |
| [`DROP STATS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-stats.md) | Drops statistics from a table. |
| [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain-analyze.md) | Works similar to `EXPLAIN`, with the major difference that it will execute the statement. |

> | [`LOAD STATS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-load-stats.md) | Load statistics into TiDB. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [`LOAD STATS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-load-stats.md) | Loads statistics into TiDB. |
```

> | [`SHOW ANALYZE STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-analyze-status.md) | Show statistics collection tasks. |
> | [`SHOW BINDINGS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-bindings.md) | Show created SQL bindings. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [`SHOW ANALYZE STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-analyze-status.md) | Shows statistics collection tasks. |
| [`SHOW BINDINGS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-bindings.md) | Shows created SQL bindings. |
```

---
title: SQL Statement Overview

> summary: Learn about SQL statement overview.
> ---

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
summary: Learn about supported SQL statements in TiDB.
---

```

| [`SHOW GRANTS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-grants.md) | Shows privileges associated with a user. |
| [`SHOW PRIVILEGES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-privileges.md) | Shows available privileges. |

## TiCDC & TiDB Binlog

<CustomContent platform="tidb">

| SQL Statement | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [`ADMIN [SET\|SHOW\|UNSET] BDR ROLE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-bdr-role.md) | Manages BDR roles. |
| [`CHANGE DRAINER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-change-drainer.md) | Modifies the status information for Drainer in the cluster. |
| [`CHANGE PUMP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-change-pump.md) | Modifies the status information for Pump in the cluster. |
| [`SHOW DRAINER STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-drainer-status.md) | Shows the status for all Drainer nodes in the cluster. |
| [`SHOW MASTER STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-master-status.md) | Shows the latest TSO in the cluster. |
| [`SHOW PUMP STATUS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-pump-status.md) | Shows the status information for all Pump nodes in the cluster. |

</CustomContent>

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

> > **Note:**
> >
> > [TiCDC](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/ticdc-overview) & [TiDB Binlog](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-binlog-overview) are tools for replicating TiDB data to the upstream for TiDB Self-Hosted. Most SQL statements for TiCDC and TiDB Binlog are not applicable to TiDB Cloud. For TiDB Cloud, you can use the [Changefeed](/tidb-cloud/changefeed-overview.md) feature in the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com) instead to stream data. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

> **Note:**
>
> [TiCDC](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/ticdc-overview) & [TiDB Binlog](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-binlog-overview) are tools for replicating TiDB data to the upstream for TiDB Self-Hosted. Most SQL statements for TiCDC and TiDB Binlog are not applicable to TiDB Cloud. For TiDB Cloud, you can use the [Changefeed](/tidb-cloud/changefeed-overview.md) feature in the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com) instead to stream data. 

```
